TCG Manager
Vision

Introduction
 A common problem for a lot of players of trading card games is a lack of efficiency in organizing their collection. Since most games involve collecting a large amount of physical cards or figures,  managing a large collection is often messy, and either takes hours of dedication to sort, or  involves hastily throwing items into random containers. In order to remedy this issue, we present the TCG Manager. This software is designed to aids the issues of card collection, by allowing users to catalog their collections in an easy to navigate manager. This manager will also include in depth searching features, price checking, and much more. In the end. the software will make the process of sorting cards easier and less time consuming, allowing more time for playing with friends. 


Positioning
  Problem Statement
    The problem of inefficient organization of trading cards and figurines affects most players of trading card games the impact of which is loss of money, loss of time, inconvenience. a successful solution would be a program that aids in cataloging, managing and price checking cards in a collection.


  Product Position Statement
    For owners of TCGs who have lots of cards, the TCG Manager is a virtual card organizer that makes it quick and easy to organize and find relevant cards. Unlike binders, shoe boxes, and even other virtual card organizers, our product keeps your cards organized and makes finding new cards easy.


Stakeholder Descriptions
  Stakeholder Summary
  
    Sponsor
      Publishers of large TCGs, such as Wizards of the Coast, who own Magic: The Gathering and Pokemon Trading Card Game
        This stakeholder can provide funding for the project, as it is in their best interest to have a widely-used and unified virtual platform for the management of their product.  They can also provide widespread advertising and distribution.  Furthermore, they can integrate their websites, API, and forums directly into the product.
  
    Project Team
      The five members of project group 4
        Because our product and team are relatively small, we have no need for project managers.  Instead, we will be in charge of both the management and programming.  


User Environment
  Organizing a deck of cards from a TCG only involves a single person, and it can take them anywhere from a few minutes to a few hours depending on how many cards they have, how they are organizing them, and which specific games they are using.  Our product will need to be used on a computer or smart phone, although we plan to program it using Java, a highly portable language that can run on nearly any machine.  This ensures that the product can be used by a wide demographic.  The fact that every TCG player needs to organize their cards in some way, and our highly portable design gives it potential to be used by a large portion of the TCG community.


Product Overview

  Card Database
    Priority 1
      Card database would hold the information for each card. This allow the use to search for their cards in order to catalog them.
        Release: On release of the program.

  In Depth Search Feature
    Priority 1
      Allows the user to search for cards not only by name, but by type, ID number, and other primary features.
        Release: On release of the program.

  Collection Tracker
    Priority 1
      After a card is searched and found, the user adds it to the collection tracker. The user can also add the location, condition, and other specific features to the card.
        Release: On release of the program.

  Deck Builder
    Priority 2
      Feature would allow the user to construct hypothetical decks using either the cards they own or cards they wish to own in the future.
        Release: First update to the program.

  Price Checker
    Priority 3
      Would allow the user to check the average sale price of a card they own, or find retailers where the card is available.
        Release: First/second update to the program.

  Related Cards
    Priority 4
      This feature would recommend cards to a player that synergize with the card they are currently viewing. This is useful in deck building.
        Release: Second update to the program.


Other Product Requirements
  
  Run on nearly any machine by using Java
    Priority 2
      Release: Initial release

  Responsive and intuitive front-end UI
    Priority 1
      Release: first / second update

  GUI
    Priority 2
      Release: first / second update

  Low resource usage
    priority 3
      Release: -




Group contribution:
  Tanner Brelje
    1. Introduction
    2.1 Product statement
    4. Product overview

  Josh Gutman:
    2.2. Product position statement
    3.1. Stakeholder summary
    3.2. User environment
    5. Other product requirements
